---
title: Sexuality Education
permalink: /nurturegess/character-citizenship-education/gess-sexuality-education/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Character & Citizenship Edn
variant: tiptap
---
<h3><strong>GAN ENG SENG SCHOOL</strong></h3><h4><strong>Moe Sexuality Education in Schools</strong></h4><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools aims to enable students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The <strong>Goals</strong> of Sexuality Education are to:</p><p>(a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Support students in managing their physiological, social and emotional changes as they grow up and develop safe and healthy relationships.</p><p>(b)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Guide students to make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters.</p><p>(c)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Help students develop a moral compass and respect for themselves and others by having positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality that are premised on the family as the basic unit of society.</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The <strong>Key Messages</strong> of Sexuality Education are:</p><p>(a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;</p><p>(b)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families);</p><p>(c)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and</p><p>(d)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unintended pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.</p><p>You may click <a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on MOE Sexuality Education.</p><h4><strong>Overview of Gan Eng Seng School’s Sexuality Education Programme for 2024</strong></h4><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sexuality Education is delivered in a holistic manner through the school curriculum. The content for Sexuality Education is grouped into five main themes: Human Development, Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and, Culture, Society and Law. You may click <a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education-scope" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> for more information on the scope of Sexuality Education in the school curriculum.</p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The subjects that incorporate topics on sexuality include:</p><p>a.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Science</p><p>b.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Character and Citizenship Education (CCE)</p><h4><strong><u>Sexuality Education Lessons</u></strong>:</h4><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The values and attitudes of our youth towards sexuality are increasingly shaped by their peers, exposure to the media, popular culture and the internet. Adolescence is a complex stage in life as the adolescent attempts to find his/her own identity and often struggles with new social relationships. The period of middle adolescence (generally from 15 – 17 years old) can be a turbulent period for adolescents. The gap between physical and emotional/cognitive maturity may result in a tendency to act on impulse, experiment with various activities (including sexual activities), sometimes without understanding the unpleasant consequences that may arise from such experimentation. The need for peer acceptance can be overwhelmingly strong and hinder one’s ability to act responsibly.&nbsp; Given the pressures faced by the middle adolescent from within themselves and from peers, it is important to build a strong sense of self-worth, personal conviction and an understanding of the possible consequences of sexual behaviour.</p><p>7.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Through the Sexuality Education lessons, secondary students will have the opportunity to develop a positive self-esteem, develop their character, and expand their understanding and repertoire of skills to deal with various issues related to sexuality, which are of prime concern at this age.<strong><br></strong></p><h4><strong><a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">At Gan Eng Seng School, the following Sexuality Education lessons will be taught in <u>2024</u>:</a></strong></h4><h4><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2024</strong></h4><h4><strong>Secondary 1</strong></h4><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Unit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title / Duration</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Steady or Not</p><p>Lesson 1</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson helps students understand more about relationship building and the different types of love (e.g. familial, platonic, romantic). They will have the opportunity to better understand the considerations involved in making responsible decisions towards dating and romantic relationships and understand how to build healthy and supportive relationships, both online and offline.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise the importance of monitoring and managing our emotional reactions, in helpful ways that are reflective of our values and principles</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise that there are different forms of love (e.g. familial, platonic, romantic love)</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise the importance and understand what builds healthy and supportive relationships, both online and offline</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand what dating is, and recognise that the readiness and interest in dating vary among individuals</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Being Aware, Being Safe</p><p>Lesson 2</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on helping students to be safe from the dangers of sexual grooming and on respecting one’s right to safety. Students will also learn about the legal provisions against sexual abuse, and the impact of sexual abuse on victims, including the psychological impact on the sense of self.&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><em>This lesson is conducted separately for boys and girls in different classrooms, so that the students will feel more comfortable during the discussions.</em></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that physical and psychological abuse from others, especially those we know and trust, can have strong negative effects on a person’s self-concept</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>More than Meets the Eye</p><p>Lesson 3</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson touches on two areas relevant to an adolescent’s curiosity on matters related to sexuality – masturbation and pornography. Students will gain awareness of the health, legal and moral issues related to viewing, downloading and/or distributing pornography. While students may perceive watching pornography as a private issue without consequences to bear, they will learn that it could lead to addiction and/or other risky sexual behaviours.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><em>This lesson is conducted separately for boys and girls in different classrooms, so that the students will feel more comfortable during the discussions.</em></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand and accept that as we work towards becoming our best self, there will be times when we make mistakes, and recognise the importance of exercising moral courage in facing up to consequences</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise that there are moral and legal consequences of risky sexual behaviours, pornography access and acting irresponsibly or maliciously when online (e.g. spreading of online falsehoods, flouting copyright laws, etc.)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><h4><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2024</strong></h4><h4><strong>Secondary 2</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Unit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title/ Duration</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>A Role for Everyone</p><p>Lesson 1</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focus on how the family, culture and society can influence one’s perception of their gender roles. Students will learn what gender stereotypes are (e.g. males traditionally as breadwinners and females traditionally as doing household chores) and how gender stereotypes are formed. &nbsp;Students will discuss how one’s understanding of gender roles should not be limited by gender stereotypes, for example women can be pilots, while men can be nurses.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students learn to focus on their personal strengths to pursue their interests and build their self- confidence.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students will also learn about the definitions of biological sex, gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation. They will learn to treat everyone with respect and empathy.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that one’s understanding of gender roles should not be limited by gender stereotypes</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; develop an appreciation of one’s own unique qualities and characteristics as a male or female</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand what sexual orientation entails</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Online Safety Challenge</p><p>Lesson 2A</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on the issue of online grooming and cyber-flashing. It emphasises the need for help-seeking, peer support and positive peer influence. The lesson encourages the safe and responsible use of social media, and aims to deepen students’ conviction, and extend a call to action to students to taking appropriate decisions to safeguard their well-being and safety.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><em>This lesson is conducted separately for boys and girls in different classrooms, so that the students will feel more comfortable during the discussions.</em></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise one’s vulnerability to risky situations and the importance of exercising discretion to reduce risks and avoid negative consequences, both online and offline</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Do I or Don’t I</p><p>Lesson 2B</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on respect for personal boundaries; and how to be safe from risky sexual behaviour, teenage pregnancy and abortion. Students will learn the importance of respecting one another’s boundaries in relationships. This lesson emphasises the importance of responsible decision-making, the value of sexual abstinence, the need for help seeking. Students will be aware of Singapore laws protecting minors, such as the legal consequences of having sex with a minor, abortion and the abandonment of babies.&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise the importance of self-respect and respect for others in relating to members of the opposite sex</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise one’s vulnerability to risky situations and the importance of exercising discretion to reduce risks and avoid negative consequences, both offline and online</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2024</strong></h4><h4><strong>Secondary 3</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong><br></strong></p><p><strong>Unit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title/ Duration</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Love Yourself, Love Others</p><p>Lesson 1A</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on dating respectfully in healthy relationships. Students will learn about self-esteem, their sources of influence (e.g. friends’ perception) on self-esteem, the impact of one’s self-esteem on our mental well-being as well as relationships with others. Students will also learn how emotional reactions can affect relationships positively or negatively. Students will also learn that maturity and readiness are important when entering into a dating relationship.&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that self-perception and identity have an impact on our self-esteem and how we interact with others and the choices we make, both online and offline</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that expectations of oneself and others may differ and can affect one’s emotions, thoughts and behaviours</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise what healthy dating relationships involve and know that readiness is important when entering into a dating relationship</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mending a Broken Heart Lesson 1B</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Students will learn how to manage their emotions if they were to face a breakup and know that relationship building involves person emotions and vulnerabilities, and changes and challenges. Students will also learn that a decision to end a relationship will have consequences on oneself and others, and that grief and loss due to rejections and broken relationships is normal and that one can recover from the experience. They will learn that there are healthy ways of coping with breakdowns in relationships and that family and friends are important pillars of support.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that relationship-building involves personal emotions and vulnerabilities, and changes and challenges</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that a decision to end a relationship will have consequences on oneself and others</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that grief and loss due to rejections and broken relationships is normal and one can recover from the experience</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know there are healthy ways of coping with broken relationships, and family and friends are important pillars of support</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>When Respect Takes Centre Stage</p><p>Lesson 2</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students think critically and make informed decisions in the contexts of sexting and voyeurism, and encourages students to exert a positive influence as a respectful online user. It will also deepen students’ convictions about making moral decisions by taking into consideration the impact of their decisions and actions on their well-being and safety, their loved ones, and the community. Students learn that they have a right and responsibility to be safe and protect their personal space and body. They also learn that sexting, voyeurism and other related sexual offences are never justifiable and they can seek help in times of need.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise the importance of being informed of social and moral issues of the day and the need to reflect on these issues, and weigh them against our own moral standpoints as we form our perspectives about them</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2024</strong></h4><h4><strong>Secondary 4</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Unit</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Levelling the Ground Lesson 1</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">This lesson aims to help students think critically about gender stereotypes that exist in our society in the contexts of career and family (e.g. males typically perceived as main breadwinners and females typically perceived as main caregivers in the family), and the impact of these stereotypes on individuals. Students will learn to be aware of possible gender stereotypes that may affect one’s family and future decisions. They will also learn to reframe their perspectives and not judge others based on their own or others’ values and principles, with regard to gender stereotypes.</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand what gender stereotypes comprise, e.g. notions of masculinity and femininity vary over time and space, and are shaped by societal expectations</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that imposing gender stereotypes on oneself and others can limit one’s experiences, cause harm to the self-esteem of oneself and others and should be avoided</p><p><em>&nbsp;</em></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>When Love Hurts</p><p>Lesson 2</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students recognise unhealthy relationships and build their help-seeking skills. Students will learn to identify potential signs of an unhealthy relationship and recognise the different forms of dating violence. They will get to understand why dating violence occurs, why victims often feel “trapped” in such unhealthy relationships, and how one can get out of such a relationship safely. Students will learn when, where and how to seek help from trusted adults (e.g. family, teachers, school counsellors) in the supportive environment that they have if they or their friends are involved in an unhealthy relationship.</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know there are healthy ways of coping with broken relationships, and family and friends are important pillars of support</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; recognise emotions caused by traumatic situations, e.g. bullying, abuse and dating violence, and understand the physiological and psychological, social impact on victims</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that we need moral courage and wisdom to recognise and end relationships that are unhealthy and cause harm to our mental and emotional well-being</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand the importance of ensuring that non-verbal messages match with verbal ones, when communicating personal and emotional boundaries in a relationship</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>For Better or For Worse</p><p>Lesson 3</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">This lesson focuses on building a positive relationship with one’s partner in a marriage. Students will understand that while a marriage, defined in Singapore as a union between a man and a woman, requires mutual commitment and effort like the other relationships in their lives, what sets a marriage apart is its lifelong commitment. Students will learn that what really matters to sustain and maintain a long-term romantic relationship leading to marriage is understanding the other person’s perspective and effectively communicating with each other.&nbsp;</a></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that long-term romantic relationships leading to marriage involve understanding oneself and others in the intellectual, emotional, social and moral dimensions</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; know that marriage entails a union between a man and a woman based on love, trust, commitment, and requires mutual effort</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that conflicts are normal in any relationship, including marriage, and the way in which a couple handles conflict is critical to the success of their marriage</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>There’s Always More to a Story</p><p>Lesson 4</p><p>(60 mins)</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>In this lesson, students will revisit the impact of pornography and deepen their understanding on its impact on relationships. Students will also learn about revenge pornography, including its definition and legal provisions. They will also learn that they can turn to trusted adults for help in setting boundaries and overcoming difficulties in making sound decisions, to prevent themselves from encountering danger.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>2024 Sexuality Education Lessons in CCE 2024</strong></h4><h4><strong>Secondary 5</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>UNIT</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Title</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Overview</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Lesson Objectives</strong></p><p>At the end of the lesson, students will be able to:</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This is Where I Draw the Line</p><p>(60 mins)</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>In this lesson, students will understand that different individuals have different emotional and physical boundaries. This lesson highlights the need to respect the boundaries of others and reinforces the importance of showing respect to the opposite sex by using appropriate words and actions. Students will examine personal boundaries from different perspectives and learn the importance of making sound values-based decisions and acting in consideration of the well-being of themselves and others.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h3><strong><em><u>eTeens</u></em><u> Programme</u></strong>:</h3><p>8.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <em>eTeens</em> is a programme developed by Health Promotion Board, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, to provide Secondary 3 students with accurate information on STIs, HIV and protection from a health perspective. <em>eTeens</em> is conducted in two segments – a mass talk segment and a classroom-based programme. The desired outcome of the <em>eTeens</em> programme is that students are empowered to make wise, informed and sensible decisions.</p><p>9.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are taught skills such as decision-making, assertiveness and negotiation to say “no” to sex and negative peer pressure. They also learn that the impact of STIs/HIV extends beyond themselves and involves their family, and the importance of responsible decision-making and seeking help. Abstinence and upholding family values are the key messages.</p><h4><strong>At Gan Eng Seng School, the <em>eTeens</em> programme will be implemented as follows in 2024:</strong></h4><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Topics/Lessons</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Programme Learning Objectives</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mass Talk by HPB appointed vendor</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Raise awareness and provide knowledge on:</p><p>a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Infectious diseases (STIs and HIV): what it is, how it spreads, how to prevent infection mainly through ABC (abstinence, being faithful, correct, and consistent condom use).</p><p>b)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Managing relationships and risky situations in a healthy way.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Classroom-based Lesson</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Learn to negotiate their way out of a risky situation by applying skills of assertiveness and responsible decision-making</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>To be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h4><strong>Information for Parents</strong></h4><p>10.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents may opt their children out of the Sexuality Education lessons, <em>eTeens</em> and/or supplementary sexuality education programmes by MOE-approved external providers.</p><p>11.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents who wish to opt their children out of the <strong>Sexuality Education lessons</strong> need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be communicated to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable <a href="https://go.gov.sg/gesssedoptout2024" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a> . The completed form is to be submitted by 31/01/2024.</p><p>12.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents who wish to opt their children out of the <strong><em>eTeens</em> programme</strong> need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be communicated to parents at the start of the year and is also downloadable <u>here</u> (please insert hyperlink: <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://go.gov.sg/gesseteensoptout</a> ). &nbsp;The completed form is to be submitted by 31/01/2024.</p><p>13.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents can contact the school at <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">gess@moe.edu.sg</a> or 6474 5594 for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s Sexuality Education programme.</p><p></p><p></p><h2>Gan Eng Seng School</h2><h4><strong>MOE Sexuality Education in Schools</strong></h4><h4>Introduction&nbsp;</h4><p>Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools is about enabling students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters in their growing up years.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>It is taught in the context of values which our mainstream society believes in:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>the importance of the family as the basic unit of society,&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages, and&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities on sexuality issues.&nbsp;</p></li></ul><p>Sexuality Education focuses on the development of adolescents' values, and social and emotional competencies required to make responsible decisions regarding sexual behaviours and to build rewarding relationships based on love and respect which are the foundation for strong families.&nbsp;</p><p>It is also named Sexuality Education (rather than Sex Education) to emphasise the holistic approach which includes the emotional, social, intellectual and ethical aspects, in addition to the physical aspect of sex.</p><p><strong>Sexuality Education covers the following dimensions of a person’s sexuality:</strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Physical:</strong>&nbsp;Physical sexual maturation and intimacy, the physiology of sex and human reproduction;</p></li><li><p><strong>Emotional:&nbsp;</strong>Sexual attitudes and feelings towards self and others;</p></li><li><p><strong>Social:&nbsp;</strong>Sexual norms and behaviour and their legal, cultural and societal implications; and</p></li><li><p><strong>Ethical:&nbsp;</strong>Values and moral systems related to sexuality.​</p></li></ul><h4>Key Messages, Goals and Guiding Principles​</h4><p><strong><em>The four key messages of Sexuality Education are:</em></strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families);&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unwanted pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.</p><p></p></li></ul><p><strong><em>The three goals of Sexuality Education are:</em></strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>To help students make wise, responsible and informed decisions through the provision of accurate, current and age-appropriate knowledge on human sexuality and the consequences of sexual activity;&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>To help students know themselves and build healthy and rewarding relationships through the acquisition of social and emotional skills of self-awareness, management of their thoughts, feelings and behaviours, development of empathy for others, possession of effective communication, problem-solving and decision-making skills; and&nbsp;</p></li><li><p>To help students develop a moral compass, respect for themselves and for others as sexual beings, premised on the heterosexual married couple forming a nuclear family as the basic unit of society, through the inculcation of positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality.</p><p></p></li></ul><p><strong><em>The key guiding principles of Sexuality Education are:&nbsp;</em></strong></p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Home</strong></p></li></ul><p>Parents play the primary role in the sexuality education of their children. As such, they are responsible for the teaching and transmission of values on sex and sexuality. Recognising that parents have a key role in the sexuality education of their children, they can exercise their choice to opt their children out of the school’s sexuality education programme;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>​​School</strong></p></li></ul><p>The teaching of knowledge and skills is integrated with the teaching of values which reflect that of Singapore’s mainstream society, to help students ​make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters.</p><p>In accordance with our national values, Sexuality Education is premised on the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and building stable nuclear family units with extended family support.</p><p>Only specially-selected teachers are trained to teach Sexuality Education. These teachers are selected because they:&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>believe in the importance of sexuality education for students;</p></li><li><p>possess values that are aligned with MOE values in Sexuality Education;</p></li><li><p>are comfortable discussing sexuality issues; and</p></li><li><p>have healthy rapport with students and possess good facilitation skills.</p></li></ul><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Community&nbsp;</strong></p></li></ul><p>In recognition of our multi-racial and multi-religious society, students and teachers will respect the different attitudes, values and beliefs regarding sexuality that these different communities may have.</p><p>Relevant resources in the community that are in alignment with MOE Sexuality Education Framework and Implementation Guidelines may be brought in to supplement schools' sexuality education programmes where needed.</p><p>All documents are available on the SEd Intranet Webpage: <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://intranet.moe.gov.sg/guidancebranch/Pages/s_edu.aspx</a></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>At Gan Eng Seng School, the following lessons from the Sexuality Education Programme will be taught in&nbsp;<u>2024:</u></strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="5"><p><strong>SECONDARY 1 SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>UNIT</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON TITLE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OVERVIEW</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OBJECTIVES</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>TIME PERIOD</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 1:</u></p><p>STEADY OR NOT?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson helps students to understand more about dating so that they can make informed decisions about pursuing romantic relationships. They will have the opportunity to better understand the complexities and considerations involved in making responsible decisions towards dating and romantic relationships. Specifically, through the scenario discussions, students will share their views about ways to manage teasing by peers about relationships among friends, public displays of affection and how this might affect others, as well as sexting and its dangers. Students will understand the importance of self-respect and choosing to do what is right, including respecting boundaries, and they will be aware of the consequences of irresponsible actions in the context of dating and online communication.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise the importance of monitoring and managing our emotional reactions, in helpful ways that are reflective of our values and principles.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise that there are different forms of love (e.g. familial, platonic, romantic).</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise the importance and understand what builds healthy and supportive relationships, both online and offline.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand what dating is, and recognise that the readiness and interest in dating vary among individuals.</p></td><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Lessons will be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 2:</u></p><p>BEING AWARE, BEING SAFE</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on safety from sexual grooming and respect for one’s right to safety. Students will also learn about the legal provisions for sexual abuse, and the impact of sexual abuse on victims, including the psychological impact on the sense of self. Using a video to allow discussion and consolidation of ideas, this lesson provides students with the opportunity to sense-make, engage in metacognition and deepen their learning on the topic of sexual grooming, and understand how to keep safe from sexual grooming and seek help for themselves and their friends</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that physical and psychological abuse from others, especially those we know and trust, can have strong negative effects on a person’s self-concept.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 3:</u></p><p>MORE THAN MEETS THE EYE?</p><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson touches on two areas relevant to an adolescent’s curiosity on matters related to sexuality – masturbation and pornography. Students will gain awareness of the health, legal and moral issues related to viewing, downloading and/or distributing pornography. While students may perceive watching pornography as a private issue without consequences to bear, they will learn that it could lead to addiction and/or other risky sexual behaviours (e.g. excessive masturbation).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>•&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students will understand the viewpoints of different stakeholders on watching pornography.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>•&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This process helps them to consider the values of the family and/or community which they have been brought up in to guide them in demonstrating self-respect and responsibility by abstaining from watching pornography.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This lesson is conducted separately for boys and girls in different classrooms, so that the students will feel more comfortable during the discussion.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand and accept that as we work towards becoming our best self, there will be times when we make mistakes, and recognise the importance of exercising moral courage in facing up to consequences.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise that there are moral and legal consequences of risky sexual behaviours, pornography access and acting irresponsibly or maliciously when online (e.g. spreading of online falsehoods, flouting copyright laws, etc).</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="6"><p><strong>SECONDARY 2 SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>UNIT</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON TITLE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OVERVIEW</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OBJECTIVES</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>TIME PERIOD</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 1:</u></p><p>A ROLE FOR EVERYONE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson incorporates videos and discussions to focus on how family, culture and society can influence one’s perception of their gender roles. Students will learn what gender stereotypes are, how gender stereotypes are formed, and appreciate that in today’s society, males and females need not limit their choices in life due to gender stereotypes, and can pursue activities and goals of their interests.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students will also gain an understanding of the definitions for biological sex, gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students can learn to build self-confidence and resilience by focusing on their personal strengths and unique qualities, as well as appreciate themselves for who they are (I Am). Caring and supportive relationships are also important as it allows them to seek help and advice (I Have).</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that one’s understanding of gender roles should not be limited by gender stereotypes.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Develop an appreciation of one’s own unique qualities and characteristics as a male or female.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand what sexual orientation entails.</p><p></p></td><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Lessons will be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 2:</u></p><p>#ONLINE</p><p>SAFETY</p><p>CHALLENGE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on the issue of online grooming and cyber-flashing, and uses a video as a trigger to set the context for the lesson, after which students will be invited to express their stand on the topic of online interactions. After analysing four examples of online conversations, group and class discussions will provide students with opportunities to think, dialogue with peers, and express their opinions on the topic of online grooming and the difficulties they may encounter in recognising it. This lesson emphasises the need for help-seeking, peer support and positive peer influence. Students are encouraged to clarify their doubts on online grooming and cyber-flashing at the end of the lesson. The lesson encourages the safe and responsible use of social media, and aims to deepen students’ conviction, and extend a call to action to students to taking appropriate decisions to safeguard their well-being and safety.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This lesson is conducted separately for boys and girls in different classrooms, so that the students will feel more comfortable during the discussion.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise one’s vulnerability to risky situations and the importance of exercising discretion to reduce risks and avoid negative consequences, both online and offline.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 3:</u></p><p>DO I OR DON’T I?</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on respect for boundaries, risky sexual behaviour, teenage pregnancy and abortion. Using a handshake activity, students will learn the importance of respecting one another’s boundaries in relationships. Through watching a video of an interview with Belle, a teenage girl who is a victim of teenage pregnancy caused by pre-marital sex, students will discuss the consequences and impact of pre-marital sex and unwanted teenage pregnancies. This lesson emphasises the importance of responsible decision-making, the value of sexual abstinence, the need for help seeking and the legal provisions for sex with a minor, abortion and abandonment of babies.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise the importance of self-respect and respect for others in relating to members of the opposite sex.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise one’s vulnerability to risky situations and the importance of exercising discretion to reduce risks and avoid negative consequences, both offline and online.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="5"><p><strong>SECONDARY 3 SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>UNIT</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON TITLE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OVERVIEW</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OBJECTIVES</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>TIME PERIOD</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 1:</u></p><p>LOVE YOURSELF, LOVE OTHERS</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on dating respectfully in healthy relationships. Through watching a video on how a dating couple reacts to a challenge in their relationship, students will engage in discussion to learn about self-esteem (I Am), their sources of influence (e.g. friends’ perception) on self-esteem, then discuss the impact of one’s self-esteem on our mental well-being as well as relationships with others.</p><p>By putting themselves in the shoes of the characters in the video, students will also learn how emotional reactions can affect relationships positively or negatively. Thereafter, students will engage in a Relationship Traffic Light activity and learn how to recognise and discern healthy relationships from unhealthy ones.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that self-perception and identity have an impact on our self-esteem and how we interact with others and the choices we make, both online and offline.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that expectations of oneself and others may differ and can affect one’s emotions, thoughts and behaviours.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise what healthy dating relationships involve and know that readiness is important when entering into a dating relationship.</p></td><td rowspan="3" colspan="1"><p>Lessons will be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 2:</u></p><p>MENDING A BROKEN HEART</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>In this lesson, students will learn how to manage their emotions if they were to face a breakup. As some students may be beginning dating relationships or are involved in a relationship at this age, it is important that they learn how to manage their emotions and to respectfully communicate their thoughts to others. Students will learn about the Breakup Cycle and that it is normal for one to go through a range of emotions including grief and loss due to rejections and broken relationships. They will also learn that one can recover and emerge more resilient from the experience.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Through watching a video of a boy experiencing a breakup, students will learn that the decision to end a relationship can affect both parties in the relationship as well as their family and friends. Students will then learn to build resilience by identifying healthy ways of coping with breakdowns in relationships (I Can) and turning to their family and friends for support (I Have). Through a discussion activity, students will also learn appropriate ways to approach a breakup respectfully.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that relationship-building involves personal emotions and vulnerabilities, and changes and challenges.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that a decision to end a relationship will have consequences on oneself and others.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that grief and loss due to rejections and broken relationships is normal and one can recover from the experience.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know there are healthy ways of coping with broken relationships, and family and friends are important pillars of support.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 3:</u></p><p>WHEN RESPECT TAKES CENTRE STAGE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students think critically and make informed decisions in the context of sexting. It also encourages students to exert a positive influence as a respectful online user. Through the Circle of Viewpoints, students will have opportunities to think deeper, rationalise and express their opinions, as they consider the risks, as well as moral and legal perspectives around sexting. The lesson will also deepen students’ convictions about making moral decisions by taking into consideration the impact of their decisions and actions on their well-being and safety, their loved ones, and the community.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise the importance of being informed of social and moral issues of the day and the need to reflect on these issues, and weigh them against our own moral standpoints as we form our perspectives about them.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="5"><p><strong>SECONDARY 4 SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>UNIT</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON TITLE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OVERVIEW</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OBJECTIVES</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>TIME PERIOD</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="4" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 1:</u></p><p>LEVELLING THE GROUND</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students think critically about gender stereotypes that exist in our society and the impact of these stereotypes on individuals. The lesson’s focus is on gender stereotypes faced by men and women in society. Through two case studies, students will have the opportunity to reflect deeper, rationalise and express their opinions about the existence of gender stereotypes in society. The Hot Seat activity will allow students to consider various perspectives and perceptions of gender stereotypes. They will also consider the implications of gender stereotypes on self-perception and that of others. This lesson will help students to be aware of possible gender stereotypes that may affect one’s family and future decisions. They will also learn to reframe their perspectives and not judge others based on their own or others’ values and principles, with regard to gender stereotypes.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand what gender stereotypes comprise, e.g. notions of masculinity and femininity vary over time and space, and are shaped by societal expectations.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that imposing gender stereotypes on oneself and others can limit one’s experiences, cause harm to the self-esteem of oneself and others and should be avoided.</p></td><td rowspan="4" colspan="1"><p>Lessons will be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 2:</u></p><p>WHEN LOVE HURTS</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson aims to help students recognise unhealthy relationships and build their help-seeking skills. Using a checklist, students will learn to identify potential signs of an unhealthy relationship and recognise the different forms of dating violence. Students will also engage in scenario discussions, where they will step into the shoes of the parties involved in, and affected by unhealthy relationships. Through the discussions, students will get to understand why dating violence occurs, why victims often feel “trapped” in such unhealthy relationships, and how one can get out of such a relationship safely.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The lesson will end with having students suggest how they can help and support someone who is trapped in an unhealthy relationship.</p><p>Students will learn when, where and how to seek help (I Can) from trusted adults (e.g. family, teachers, school counsellors) in the supportive environment (I Have) that they have if they or their friends are involved in an unhealthy relationship. These internal and external resources help students build resilience as they learn to cope with or overcome the emotional challenges and step out of an unhealthy relationship.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know there are healthy ways of coping with broken relationships, and family and friends are important pillars of support.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Recognise emotions caused by traumatic situations, e.g. bullying, abuse and dating violence, and understand the physiological and psychological, social impact on victims.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that we need moral courage and wisdom to recognise and end relationships that are unhealthy and cause harm to our mental and emotional well-being.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand the importance of ensuring that non-verbal messages match with verbal ones, when communicating personal and emotional boundaries in a relationship.</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 3:</u></p><p>FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>This lesson focuses on building a positive relationship with one’s partner in a marriage. By reflecting on their current relationships, students will understand that while a marriage requires mutual commitment and effort like the other relationships in their lives, what sets a marriage apart is its lifelong commitment. Through a class discussion centred on the video ‘Imperfections’, students will recognise that conflicts are a natural part of any relationship. The Tug-of-War facilitation strategy gives students the opportunity to consider the perspectives of both parties involved in the conflict. Students will learn that what really matters to sustain and maintain a long-term romantic relationship leading to marriage is understanding the other person’s perspective and effectively communicating with each other.&nbsp;</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that long-term romantic relationships leading to marriage involve understanding oneself and others in the intellectual, emotional, social and moral dimensions. [2.1.5a]</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know that marriage entails a union between a man and a woman based on love, trust, commitment, and requires mutual effort. [2.1.5a]</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that conflicts are normal in any relationship, including marriage, and the way in which a couple handles conflict is critical to the success of their marriage.</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 4:</u></p><p>THERE’S ALWAYS MORE TO A STORY</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>In this lesson, students will revisit the impact of pornography, which they have gone through in the Secondary 1 ‘More Than Meets the Eye’ lesson, and deepen their understanding on its impact on relationships. The lesson activities provide opportunities for students to weigh their own values and principles against the various perspectives on the issues of pornography and revenge pornography. Through a finger poll activity, students will have the opportunity to discuss the realism of pornography, as well as consider the impact of pornography exposure. Students will also learn about revenge pornography, including its definition and legal provisions. Using case scenarios of revenge pornography, students will consider how the characters can respond, seek help, and deter the occurrence of revenge pornography. Students will also learn that they can turn to trusted adults (I Have) for help in setting boundaries and overcoming difficulties in making sound decisions, to prevent themselves from encountering danger. This helps strengthen one’s resilience</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="5"><p><strong>SECONDARY 5 SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>UNIT</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON TITLE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OVERVIEW</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>LESSON OBJECTIVES</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>TIME PERIOD</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Respectful Relationships &amp; Safety</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><u>Lesson 1:</u></p><p>THIS IS WHERE I DRAW THE LINE</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>In this lesson, students will understand that different individuals have different emotional and physical boundaries. This lesson highlights the need to respect the boundaries of others and reinforces the importance of showing respect to the opposite sex by using appropriate words and actions. Through scenario-based discussions and the ‘True for Who’ facilitation strategy, students will examine personal boundaries from different perspectives, challenge gender stereotypes, and learn the importance of making sound values-based decisions and acting in consideration of the well-being of themselves and others.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Students will also reflect on their personal boundaries and learn that they can speak up for themselves and their friends (I Can), and turn to trusted adults and peers for help and advice (I Have) when their boundaries are being challenged. In communicating clear boundaries for themselves and their friends, they contribute to the creation of a safe and respectful community, and develop strengths to overcome challenging situations and build resilience</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Understand that we strengthen our character when we commit to sound values-based viewpoints (e.g. respect for life) and decisions, and speak and act in alignment with our beliefs.</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Lessons will be conducted during CCE lessons</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><u>eTeens programme</u></h3><h4>INTRODUCTION</h4><h4>Background</h4><p>The Empowered Teens (eTeens) programme is a school-based STIs (Sexually Transmitted Infections)/ HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) prevention programme developed by the Health Promotion Board in collaboration with Ministry of Education for all Secondary 3 students. The programme was piloted in schools in 2006 and has been implemented in all secondary schools since 2007.</p><p>eTeens consists of two components: a mass education session and a classroom-based lesson targeted at secondary three students.</p><p>Programme goals</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The mass education session aims to raise awareness on the causes, consequences and prevention of STIs/HIV</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The classroom-based lesson aims to:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>teach the necessary skills (decision-making, assertiveness and negotiation) to deal with peer pressure, know how to say “no” to pre-marital sex, respect the boundaries of self and others and turning to trusted adults to seek for help</p></li><li><p>provide the context for the learning of skills to handle a risky situation</p></li></ul><p></p><p><strong>At Gan Eng Seng School, the eTeen programme will be implemented as follows in 2024</strong></p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Topics/Lesson</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Programme Learning Objectives</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Time Period (e.g.Term 3 Week 9)</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Mass Talk by HPB appointed vendor</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Awareness of the different STIs and HIV/AIDS</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Modes of transmission</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Modes of protection, specifically on how the condom is used.</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Consequences and impact of STIs/HIV</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>Lessons will be conducted during CCE lesson</em></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Classroom-based Lesson</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Learn to negotiate their way out of a risky situation by applying skills of assertiveness and responsible decision-making</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><em>Lesons will be conducted during CCE lessons</em></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p><strong>Information for Parents</strong></p><p>Parents may opt their children out of the Sexuality Education lessons, eTeens and/or supplementary sexuality education programmes by MOE-approved external providers</p><p>Parents who wish to opt their children out of the <strong>Sexuality Education lessons</strong> need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be available on Parents Gateway.</p><p>Parents who wish to opt their children out of the <strong>eTeens programme</strong> need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be available on Parents Gateway.</p><p>Parents can contact the school at 64745594 for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s sexuality education programme.</p><p>Parents, who wish to attend the school sexuality education programmes, should contact the school to make the necessary arrangements</p><p></p>