---
title: High 5 – 21 July 2016 by Mdm Asnur
permalink: /lp-news/high-5-21-july-2016-by-mdm-asnur/
date: 2016-07-21
layout: post
description: ""
---
Good morning, Mdm Tan, Mr Lee, fellow colleagues and all Gessians.

Every day, Man makes history. Likewise for today, 21st July, in history. Let me bring you through a journey to recap two important events to learn from.

Firstly, 21st July 1969. It was estimated that nearly 600 million people around the world watched history unfold on this day. It was the largest audience ever for a single event, equivalent to one-fifth of the world’s population at that time. Yes, we are talking about Space Apollo 11. And Neil Armstrong becomes the first person to step on the Moon. In his words, it was on this day that the world witness “one small step for a man but it was one giant leap for mankind”. Indeed, there is so much to learn from this. Nelson Mandela once said “It always seem impossible until it’s done”. This is one perfect example. Who would have thought that walking on the moon was possible? And Neil Armstrong was just an ordinary person born in a small town of Wapakoneta, Ohio. But, he made history. History that witnessed families huddled in awe together around their television sets and also people peering up at the moon through telescopes hoping to catch a glimpse of Neil Armstrong walking around up there. This success was made possible with the contribution of many; the astronauts, thousands of engineers, the government and public support. Most importantly, it’s about Man’s curiosity and determination of exploring beyond the bounds of Earth. So Gessians, keep your curiosity and determination alive especially in seeking knowledge. Don’t waste any opportunity as Neil Armstrong himself once said “Every human has a finite number of heartbeats. I don’t intend to waste any of mine”. So, don’t waste yours. Who knows, one day, you’ll make history like Neil Armstrong did.

Secondly, 21st July 1964. The headlines read “Racial Riots in Singapore Between the Chinese and Malay groups. 23 killed and 454 injured”. On that day, about 20,000 Muslims attended a procession to celebrate Prophet Muhammad’s birthday. During the procession, clashes broke out between the Malays in the procession and the Chinese bystanders in the vicinity of Kallang Road. News of the clashes went around, causing communal violence to spread across the island. To control the situation, the government had to tap heavily on police resources. Military reinforcements had to be called in and islandwide curfews were imposed. Quoting the then Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, “You must not forget that we are facing a common enemy. This is an enemy dangerous to us all. If we are divided, we shall be destroyed.” Indeed, we shall not be our own enemy by being divided. And in remembrance of this July 1964 racial riots, we celebrate Racial Harmony Day today, as stated on the banner up there. On this Racial Harmony Day, let us all reflect on and celebrate Singapore’s successes as a racially harmonious nation and society built on a rich diversity of culture and heritage. Like the saying goes, don’t let history repeats itself. We shall not let the 1964 racial riots happen again. Each of us has a part to play in making sure we uphold respect, understanding and tolerance for each other, regardless of race, language or religion.

With that said, dear Gessians, as we have fun during our Sports Fiesta cum Racial Harmony Day Celebration tomorrow, let us remember that we have far more in common with one another than differences. Let us embrace our diversity and enjoy every moment having fun together. Onward Gessians! Thank you.